W-21743430-goddady-fa (#647)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/godaddy-verify-agent.adoc

> = Verify an agent using GoDaddy ANS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Verify an Agent Using Godaddy Ans
```

Verify an agent to establish a trusted identity based on domain ownership and enable its verified status in Anypoint Exchange.

Verification uses GoDaddy Agent Name Service (ANS) to validate the domain associated with the agent and confirm that you control it.

> == Before you begin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Before You Begin
```

Before verifying an agent, make sure that:

* The agent instance is created and deployed in API Manager
* A valid consumer endpoint is configured for the agent
* You have GoDaddy API credentials (API key and secret)
* You have access to manage DNS records for the domain
* You have access to a secret group in Secrets Manager

For infrastructure requirements such as domain configuration and TLS setup, see xref:godaddy-set-up.adoc[Prepare your environment for agent verification].

> == Start agent verification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Start Agent Verification
```

. In Anypoint Platform, go to *API Manager*.
. Select the API instance that represents your agent.
. Click *Actions* > *Verify agent identity*.

The verification wizard opens and guides you through the required steps.

> == Step 1: Provide prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Step 1: Provide Prerequisites
```

In this step:

* Confirm or update the *Consumer endpoint*
+

> The consumer endpoint is used to derive the domain that will be verified. Only the hostname is used. This domain becomes part of the agent’s identity and cannot be changed after registration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The consumer endpoint is used to derive the domain that is verified. Only the hostname is used. This domain becomes part of the agent’s identity and can't be changed after registration.
```

* Select a *Secret group*
+
The secret group is used to store credentials and generated security artifacts required for verification.

You must have access to at least one secret group with sufficient permissions to continue. 

> If the domain or environment is not correctly configured, validation errors are displayed and you cannot proceed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the domain or environment isn't correctly configured, validation errors are displayed and you can't proceed.
```

> == Step 2: Enter GoDaddy ANS credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Step 2: Enter GoDaddy ANS Credentials
```

Provide your GoDaddy credentials:

* *API key*
* *API secret*

These credentials are used to authenticate with GoDaddy ANS and initiate the verification process.

If you don’t already have these credentials, generate them in your GoDaddy account.

> == Step 3: Verify domain ownership (ACME)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Step 3: Verify Domain Ownership (Acme)
```

To prove domain ownership, create a DNS TXT record using the provided values.

. Copy the record details.
. In your DNS provider, create the TXT record.
. Return to API Manager and click *Verify*.

API Manager checks whether the record has been propagated and validated.

> NOTE: ACME records expire after a limited time. If they expire, new records are generated automatically when you retry verification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE] 
ACME records expire after a limited time. If they expire, new records are generated automatically when you retry verification.
```

> == Step 4: Verify DNS records

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Step 4: Verify DNS Records
```

After ACME verification, additional DNS records are generated.

. Copy the provided DNS records.
. Add them to your DNS provider.
. Click *Verify*.

These records enable secure communication and complete the verification process.

> == Verification process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Verification Process
```

Verification is asynchronous and depends on DNS propagation and external validation.

* Status updates are displayed in API Manager
* Verification can take several minutes or longer depending on DNS updates
* API Manager continues checking the status after verification is initiated

You can close the verification dialog and return later. The status continues to update in the background.

> == Retry or restart verification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Retry or Restart Verification
```

> If verification is not completed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If verification isn't completed:
```

> * DNS records may expire after a limited time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* DNS records can expire after a limited time
```

* You can restart the verification process from the agent instance
* New DNS records are generated when restarting

> == After verification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== After Verification
```
